[MUSIC] Hi, I'm here in Youngstown, Ohio at the National Additive
Manufacturing Innovation Institute, also known as America Makes,
which is a lot easier to say. America Makes is a really
interesting operation. It began in 2012, started by the Obama
Administration as way to reinvigorate American manufacturing using 3D printing
and atom manufacturing technology. Now America used to be a country
that made lots of things. I grew up in a factory town. My grandfather made ball bearings for
45 years. My grandmother worked in
a clothespin factory. But over the past 15, 20, 25 years,
you see increasingly less and less made by American companies. So America Makes is designed to
reinvigorate this manufacturing ethos. It's a unique public and private
partnership, again, founded by the U.S. Government. But you'll see filmed
machines donated by large and small 3D printing companies, such as
MakerBot, Stratysys, and 3D Systems. I'm here today to talk to
you about Mark Cotteleer. Mark is a consultant for Deloitte. In fact, he's their specialist on
3D printing item manufacturing. He's going to talk about
the difference between the two and how what you're learning here in this
course, about desktop 3D printing, can be applied to much broader manufacturing
techniques at a factory scale. Let's go find Mark, and
learn about additive manufacturing. Come on. Well Mark, thank you for
taking the time to be with us today. >> It's good to be here Eric. >> Can you start off by telling us
a bit about your 3D printing story? How you became interested
in this technology? >> So I've been involved in 3D printing or
additive manufacturing, you'll hear me call it
additive manufacturing, at an industrial scale for
about three years now. And Deloitte is one of the largest
professional services firms in the world. We have a very advanced technology
practice where we help our clients understand how to take both manufacturing
and information technologies and deploy them in pursuit of
value inside their businesses. And when we looked around and said what
are the critical technologies that we're going to need to be able to help
our clients understand for the future. Additive manufacturing,
3D printing was clearly one of them. Additive manufacturing
is not a new technology. The original process, stereolithography,
was invented over 30 years ago. The technology used to be
referred to as rapid prototyping. What we're seeing now
is a bit of a breakout. The technologies have advanced to
a point where the economics and the quality is sufficient to actually
move into final part production. We have done quite a bit
of work in aerospace and defense and in military applications. Trying to understand how additive
manufacturing can be used to either enhance sustainment,
that is the ability of planes to fly, of equipment to run very rapidly. We're looking at supply
chain applications, so how do we manage what we call
long tail inventory applications? So maybe I have parts that
I have to serve clients for products that might be decades old. And if someone orders that part,
maybe the toolings not available, maybe the supplier's gone out of business,
maybe I don't even have a design for it, and I need a way to manufacture it. So we're working with clients to
understand how can I rapidly produce parts in a lot size of one in order
to service that customer. We're working with clients to help them
conceptualize how they can create entirely new products. By using the design capabilities
that are enabled by additive manufacturing to either simplify
the number of components that go in. So I can produce all as one piece instead
of having to assemble multiple individual subcomponents. Or maybe I can redesign to take
weight out using lattices, or taking nonessential material out of
different parts of the component in order to reduce weight, or increase performance. Or we're seeing applications where we're
enabling entirely new business models. Lots of really new exciting application
areas for this particular technology. We're just getting started. Deloitte has its history in
things like auditing and tax. But we are in fact one of the largest
consulting firms in the world, and one of the most respected. We have leading practices in analytics,
in supply chain and manufacturing operations, in lots of
different areas, it might surprise you. So people should check
out what all we're doing. We are interested in this space, both from
the perspective of the technology itself, so how is it that we
deploy these machines? But it's also important to
recognize that these machines exist within what we refer to
as the digital thread. That is,
in order to allow this machine to work, we need an entire technology
infrastructure built around it. We'll help a company design its
additive manufacturing strategy. We'll help a company figure out
what components are appropriate for being manufactured using
additive manufacturing. We'll help them choose the equipment. We'll help them identify other
partners they want to work with, what is the software, how does that
digital thread all go together. And we'll help them secure it
by using our cyber security services to actually make sure
that nobody can hack into it. Which, if you think about it,
can be a pretty big deal. And then we'll also help with
the workforce transformation. So we have a big human capital practice that does all the change management
around helping people understand how the change of this technology
is going to impact their business. When we talk about the digital revolution, we have to extend even beyond
additive manufacturing into, you could call it industry 4.0,
you could call it smart manufacturing. You could call it the future
of manufacturing. It goes back to this notion of the digital
thread and to what we like to talk about as the physical to digital
to physical transition. So we all live in a physical world,
we interact with physical objects. But so much of the enablement of
that world has become digital. That is, we use information technology in
order to make ourselves more effective, more efficient,
in order to improve our quality of life. And so, as manufacturers,
as service providers, companies need to understand how to draw
off information from the physical world. That could be about the state of
the products that they produce. It could be about the demands that
customers have for those products. And that maybe the individual
customizations that they are looking for to make it personable to them,
as individuals. The manufacturers need to be able to draw
off all that information using sensors or other technologies. They need to be able to apply advanced
analytics and other computing systems in order to make better decisions about
what and where they want to produce. And then they need to actually
transition back into the physical world. This is where additive manufacturing comes
in, to produce the products that have the fit and form and performance that
are required by customers today. And so all of these information and
operations technologies have to work together in this overarching
digital thread in order for a company to be successful
in the 21st century. With additive manufacturing,
that may include the ability to, eventually at least, mix materials, embed
sensors so that we continue that virtuous cycle of going from the physical
world to the digital world. To the physical world, to the digital
world, to the physical world, to the digital world, on and on, always
improving and serving our customer better. The difference very often is one
of scale and precision when you look at the difference between say
a desktop and industrial scale. So we have some of the models that you
produce, and you've been working with this airplane model that you're
producing using a desktop printer. That is a fused filament process
that we often refer to as FDM, fused deposition modeling. This is a similar object made through
a fused filament process as well, they look very similar. And the main distinction that you're
going to find here between the desktop and the industrial scale is one of size. You can produce a much bigger part and
one of precision. So you're going to see a much finer
gradations depending on which of the machines you're using. Now these fused filament processes
are getting better and better everyday. We also have other technologies. So you've talked about SLS in your class,
selective laser sintering. That's another process of
additive manufacturing that is available at the industrial scale. This is the same object, same file,
we just sent it to a different machine, that is produced out of another polymer or
plastic material. In SLS, we're aiming a laser into a powder
bed, again manufacturing layer by layer. And what you'll notice here, the obvious difference in the color,
different materials. And so you've got different
material capabilities, different mechanical
characteristics between them. You'll also see some
differences in precision. So this process, you can get to
an even finer surface level. It's a powder-based system. That surface finish is determined by
literally the grain size of the powder. We've also got one here. This is a selective laser
melting process where we're actually producing
out of stainless steel. Again, it's a powder bed process. Again, we're going layer by layer. And so the big differences are between
what you are seeing on your desktop and what you are seeing in the industrial
application is really one of the size of the process. The precision of the process, the variety
of materials that you're able to use. Certainly the design principle. So, your students will perhaps be
learning to design objects using a fused filament process. The learning of those design principles,
of how to design for additive manufacturing, will be applicable
in a variety of different spaces. Now it's important to recognize
that different additive processes will yield different capabilities, and different opportunities to
expand the design envelope. So what they're really learning here is
that baseline, that foundation that's going to allow them to get a head
start on the rest of the world. They're also going to
learn to conceptualize the capabilities of
additive manufacturing. So that when they get to that company or
when they turn to their business and say hey, here's how additive manufacturing
can really play a role in our broader manufacturing context. They're going to be much better prepared
to have ideas about how to move that company forward using these technologies. The additive manufacturing space
compared to conventional manufacturing, is still relatively small. But the important thing is
that it's growing very fast. Additive manufacturing is not a panacea. It's not going to change everything. But it's going to change some things
in really, very important ways. Additive manufacturing technologies offer
the promise of addressing some really troubling, really challenging product
design and supply chain issues. The market is growing at
almost 30% per year and that's been sustained
over quite a long time. So we're looking at a market that is
growing by billions of dollars every year. There are academic studies
that show that there can in fact be a return on investment for
a home printer today. More likely than that, I think,
is we are going to see a dipole model emerge sometime
in the next five to ten years. Where your local big box retailer,
or maybe your local hardware store, will begin to deploy these
kinds of technologies. So when something goes wrong in your home,
or when you have a product
that you want to download. Perhaps you download and buy it,
purchase a design from a service. You will send that over to your local
shop and they will manufacture it for you, very much as America Makes did for
these objects for us today. And then sometime,
maybe not in the next five to ten years, we'll see that actually penetrate
the home in a significant way. At Deloitte we have produced
an online course, a MOOC. Go to www.dupress.com/3d-opportunity. We've got many perspectives that we'll
look at individual dimensions of the additive manufacturing questions. And then we also have our online course, which is very similar to
the course you're doing here. It's about three hours,
a certificate credit. That they can walk through each
of the seven ASTM processes for additive manufacturing. As well as a framework for understanding how additive
manufacturing applies to the business. It's won awards, we've had lots of users. And we'd invite everybody to participate. Additive manufacturing, the universe
of possibility is very broad and it's easy to get intimidated trying to
figure out, what am I going to do first? Just get started, particularly again
if you're a business that manufactures things, because your competitors
are getting started. And this is an area where you want to
learn and build capabilities over time. So, that you skill
yourself as an individual. And so that you deliver those
capabilities to your business, so that it can succeed in the long term. >> Don't be afraid to fail. >> Don't be afraid to fail. No. >> Well great job Marc, thank you so much. >> Thank you,
it was a pleasure being here. >> Thank you. [MUSIC]