[MUSIC] Hi, welcome to my office. If you're like me,
when you need a product, you typically don't think about making it,
instead you buy it from a store. Now, typically, store bought items
work pretty well for most of us, but sometimes they don't. Let me give you one example. I have a really big head. This is the largest hat size I could find. And as you can see,
it's still a bit tight. Now although I have a large head,
I have really tiny ears. So this product,
these off the shelf Apple earbuds, which may work well for you,
don't work very well for me. They're hard to put in, as you can see,
and they fall out really easily. The problem is, this, and
other mass produced items, are made for large groups, large segments,
not for individual consumers. Also, mass produced items
are typically made in a faraway place by someone that we don't know,
with a process that we haven't seen. As a result, most of us are pretty far
removed from the actual making process. Thus, this first exercise, is to get you
familiar with the making process, or at least thinking about making things by
stimulating your imagination as a maker. Now imagination is the most important
part of the 3D printing process, because if you can't imagine it,
you can't make it. In this exercise I'd like
you to do three things. First of all, using the camera
in your computer, or laptop, or on your phone, talking about the video
camera to make a short video. In this video, I'd like to you
to answer a number of questions. First of all, tell us a bit about
yourself, your name, where you're from. Second, give us an idea of something
that you would like to 3D print. And third,
tell us why you'd like to 3D print that. Finally, please post this video and
keep it short, about a minute or so, post it on the course webpage at
the exercise portion of the course. Your video submission will be
peer reviewed by other learners. And likewise, you'll have a chance to peer review
the submissions made by your colleagues. And if you continue with
the rest of the specialization, you actually develop the skills,
knowledge, and have access to the tools to actually
turn this idea into a real object. That's it,
I look forward to seeing your submissions. [MUSIC] [SOUND]