[MUSIC] Now let's talk about where
you can find a 3D printer. Hopefully, by now you're intrigued enough
to want to try 3D printing for yourself. That's great, the only problem is that to
try, you'll need access to a 3D printer. Fortunately you have a number
of different options. First of all, you could buy a 3D printer. Although there are a variety different
printers that you could purchase, we recommend that you
start with FDM printer. This is the safest and least expensive
form of 3D printing hardware. If you're on a tight budget, we recommend
taking a look at the Printrbot. That's printrbot.com and
printrbot has a number of printers you can purchase for
as low as $300. If you have a bit more money to spend,
we recommend the Ultimaker printer, which we use in our lab. And this typically retails for
about $2500 US. However, since Ultimaker is a partner
in specialization, certified learners will be able to purchase this
printer at a discounted price. There's also a wide ranfe of options
between the Printrbot and the Ultimaker. Our additional resource page
includes links to several good 3D printer reviews to aid
you in your purchase decision. Now if you're not quite ready to buy
your own 3D printer, that's okay, there's still a variety of ways you can
try out this technology for yourself. If you're connecting with the university,
you should check to see if your school has a 3D printing lab, many of them
do, and let me give you a few examples. In the US the University of Arizona,
the University of Tennessee, the University of Utah have all set up
3D printing labs quite recently, and students, faculty and
staff can use them at a very low cost. If you're not connected
with the university, you can perhaps find a 3-D printer
at your local public library. For example, the Harold Washington Library in downtown
Chicago has a great maker's space filled with several 3-D printers that anyone
can try just by having a library card. In addition to libraries, hacker spaces
are a great place to find 3-D printers, and also learn more about
the growing maker movement. There are thousands of hacker
spaces around the world, you could easily find one near
you by browsing hackerspaces.org, in fact Maker Bot grew out of a hacker
space in Brooklyn known as NYC resistor. Other great examples of hacker spaces
include the Electro Lab in Renece France. Makers in Mumbai India and my favorite,
Sector 67 in Madison Wisconsin. Although hacker spaces typically
charge members a monthly fee, most are happy to give you
a free tour of their facilities. Now if you don't have a university,
library or a hacker space with a printer close to you, don't worry,
you still have a few options. You might be able to find somebody
who owns a 3D printer and is living close by,
by browsing the website 3Dhubs.com. If this doesn't work, you can access a 3D printer remotely
using a variety of 3D printing providers. They're located on the web, including
3Dhubs Voodoo manufacturing and shapeways, we have information and links to all these
providers as well as some offers for discounted printing through them
on our additional resources page. [MUSIC]