At Gies College of Business,
one of our strategic priorities is to democratize education,
we do that by delivering our IMBA, IMSA executive education and
business minor online. That is not business as usual and it's
certainly not the online education of old, we put our very best faculty
in the online space. They actively engage with students from
around the world face to face in a digital classroom, faculty and students collaborating together infuse
these programs with the personal attention that enable students to
reach their full potential. >> The IMBA program through the Gies
College of Business is so incredibly innovative, the ability and accessibility
to reach a whole new audience of students. And let them learn on their own
time has been phenomenal and being able to collaborate with
people across the globe and to learn from top notch professors
has been completely revolutionary. >> When you're interacting and teaching
in a live session, you can kind of see the students environment and while I'm
teaching here at night and Champagne, it's day time, wherever they
are in the world, some of them. And so it's sort of slapped you in the
face immediately that there's a completely different perspective. >> You might think, it's more removed, its
more distant but in fact, my experience in an online class has actually been
surprisingly intimate and connected. In a classroom setting you might have 50,
60 or more students in a room at one time. And so I'm scanning around,
looking at at people, but in an online, I'm looking at one place and
the students looking right back at me and that's surprisingly a direct experience. >> I was shocked at how
much it felt as good or better than when I was sitting in
class in my undergraduate days. Everyone has their cameras on, on their
computers, there's a chat feature so you can also type in a question and the professor can answer
your question that way. >> I think the cool thing is that you
can truly participate from whatever you are the system work on your desktop,
on your cell phone. >> We were traveling in the middle
of nowhere, back from Indiana and on the Wi-Fi, still on my iPad,
I was able to connect through Zoom with classmates in Dubai and Tokyo and
California all at the same time. Even being in a remote place on the go,
the accessibility and the exposure that I was
able to get was phenomenal. Getting my NBA makes me feel
empowered because I don't need to, stop being myself. I don't need to stop working,
I don't need stop being a mother, I don't need to stop having my life and
that is everything. >> Our online programs are designed to
be career curated learning experiences. Our leading edge course
material is structured the way that professionals apply
these concepts every day. Leadership, communication and critical thinking skills are built into
the core empowering our students to put their purpose into practice
at the highest level. >> One of the most impactful
things is just your ability to take the skills that we deliver and
take them back to work on Monday. I've heard a couple of stories where
students have talked about the skills that they were able to build over a couple
of weeks and then they were able to immediately bring that skill set back into
their job and make an immediate impact. I would recommend Gies,
IMBA program for anyone, this is both, If you're starting questioning your
career to, if you're a professional and you want to hone your skill,
this is it, this is the place to be. >> At Gies College of Business we are
truly revolutionizing how online education is delivered, this isn't just a few PowerPoint
slides and a reading assignment. Our faculty and students thrive in this
one of a kind global classroom, relevant, timely discussions about current
topics from around the world. Keep content fresh and exciting, the next
generation of business leaders will come from all corners of the world and
now they converge here at Gies Business. [MUSIC]