[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Aric Rindfleisch, the John N Jones professor of marketing
at the University of Illinois. I'm also the executive director
of the Illinois MakerLab, the world's first and only 3D
printing lab in the business world. Like most people, you've probably
heard about 3D printing and its potential revolutionary impact. However, you probably
don't own a 3D printer and you've never seen an object
actually 3D printed. Thus for you and for most people, 3D printing remains
more of a concept then a reality. This specialization is designed
to make 3D printing a reality. By giving you the knowledge,
skills, and tools to use this revolutionary new technology
to turn your ideas into objects. Our team combines both academic and
industry experts, who will teach you what 3D printing is,
how 3D printers work and how to design your own
3D printable objects. In addition, learners who sign up for
our core certificates found access to discounts on 3D software,
hardware, and printing services. Our specialization will begin with a
course called the 3D printing revolution. In this brief course, I'll provide an
overview of the 3D printing ecosystem and take a look at its
revolutionary potential. This course will also provide snapshots
into what you will learn in the other courses in our specialization. >> Thank you Aric. Hi, I'm Vishal Sachdev. I'm a faculty member at
the University of Illinois. I'm also director of
the Illinois MakerLab. And I will be teaching the second
course in the specialization 3D printing applications. So in this course we will examine how
3D printing technology is being used across a variety of industry applications
including aerospace, manufacturing, and even medicine. In addition, we will also discuss
how 3D printing is enabling a growing number of people like you,
to become entrepreneurs or simply make objects that you
wouldn't be able to buy in a store. This course will give you an idea
of how to use this technology to enhance your own life and
meet your career goals. >> Thanks Vishal. Hi, my name's Jeff Smith. I'm an education program manager for Autodesk, which is one of the world's
leading suppliers of 3D design software. I will be teaching the third course in
this specialization, 3D printing software. In this course we will examine
the capabilities of 3D design programs and teach you how to use both basic and
advanced 3D software. The idea here is to create
designs that you can print. In addition, we will explore how you can
create objects using low cost 3D scanners. Some of which are free and
installed directly on your smartphone. Thus, this course will
provide you the skills that you need to turn your
ideas into real objects. >> Hi, I'm Matt Griffin. I'm the Director of Community for Ultimaker, one of the world's leading
manufacturers of desktop 3D printers. I'll be teaching the fourth course in this
specialization, 3D printing hardware. In this course, we will take a in depth
look at how desktop 3D printers work, how they are made, and how you can use
them to turn your ideas into objects. In addition, we will also examine the
types of materials that can be 3D printed. At the end of the course you
should have a solid understanding of what desktop 3D printers can do and
what you can accomplish with them. >> Thank you. I'm Jeff Ginger, I'm the director of
the Champaign-Urbana Community FabLab. Our lab was filled with all kinds of
different digital manufacturing and media production tools,
including 3D printers. We teach people how to use
these tools to create objects. I'll be teaching the capstone
course in this specialization. In this capstone,
you use the knowledge, skills, and tools that you gained from the prior
courses in this specialization to conceptualize, design, and
create a unique 3D printed object. In addition, you'll have the opportunity
to print this object through our network of 3D printing service providers. In fact, you can even use these
providers to share and market or sell this object if you would like. Thus, this capstone will integrate the
material that you've learned in the prior courses and allow you to put
your learning into action. >> Thanks Jeff. As you can see, this specialization provides an in
depth exploration of 3D printing. But it will also give you the knowledge,
skills, and tools that you'll need to
turn your ideas into objects. I hope you'll decide to join
us on this learning adventure. [MUSIC] [SOUND]