[MUSIC] Hi. As we discussed, 3D printing blurs the dividing line
between the digital and the physical. As a result, with 3D printing
technology we can easily customize and remix physical products. For many of us, this is a radical idea. Because physical products are typically
made to have a specific form and are really hard to modify. Let me give an example. In addition to having small ears,
I also have small hands. As a result, this product, the iPhone 6
Plus, is really hard for me to grasp. So, I have this case, but
it easily slips out of my hand. This would be nice if I could take
a physical case like this and modify it to have hand grips. It would fit in my fingers more easily. Now, with 3D printing we can actually
make this customization a reality. So, the purpose of this second exercise
is to give you some experience remixing physical products
in a digital form. So the purpose of this exercise is to take
you through remixing to give you a better insight into the revolutionary
potential of 3D printing. To do this exercise we're going to
be using the Thingiverse website with a product called
the Thingiverse customizer. Let me show you how that's done. To begin this exercise,
you first need to go to Thingiverse.com. Thingiverse is really an iTunes store for objects which you can download
thousands of designs made by others. You see on the upper right
hand portion of the webpage, you can sign in if you have an account
already, or create a new account. As you see we have an account already for
our lab, that's what came up. If you don't have an account,
simply click create account and you could enter in
the appropriate information. It's pretty fast and easy, I'm just going
to sign in to our maker lab account. Once you do that, if you go under
the create portion of the web page, you'll see a pull down menu item for
customize a thing. So click on that, and
now you're into the customizer. And if you move down this page you'll
see a number of customizable objects. You can pick any one of those. You can scroll down and more will appear. If you hit this blue menu option, you can see more, and
also there is a search menu box. So I'm actually interested
in customizing a wrench. You may be often in that situation where
you're trying to fix something, and you have a wrench but
it's not the right size for the job. This customizer can solve that
problem by allowing you to create the specific size wrench for
the job that you're facing. So I'm going to type in wrench into
the menu bar and see what comes up. And we see here a number
of customizable options. Let me click on this one. Customizable wrench by gr0b,
that was the creator. And show you how this works. So you'll see an image of the starting
wrench, of the starting design. This was a design that was uploaded by
the designer that you can customize. To customize you will see this
blue menu bar, Open in Customizer, just click on that. And then for each one of these there will
be a number of either pull down menus or boxes which you type certain
values to customize your thing. And as you customize, the blue image
should change in a response to the values that you enter, or
the menus that you pull down. So here with this wrench you can actually
put in a message, such as your name, I'm going to type in my name,
Aric's wrench, and you see that appears. You can also change the font. Let's see, they have basic,
futuristic, and fancy. Let's try futuristic,
see what that looks like. See the font changes. You can also change the size of
the wrench itself, the nut size. And this is in millimeters. So, the starting value
here is ten millimeters. Let me make it a bit bigger,
make this a 12 millimeter wrench. You can also control
the thickness of the wrench. How thick it is, if it's thin or fat. I'm going to make it a bit thicker so
it's a bit stronger. So moving from a five millimeter
height to same eight millimeter. And that gets a bit thicker. And finally, the length of the tool. Do you want something that's short? More compact? Or, or
longer to hold in your hand more easily? It's now a length of ten. I'm going to increase that by pulling
on this slider, moving that to 15. That looks a little bit too big,
maybe move it back down. So how does 12 look? And that's the beauty of the customizer,
you can easily change as you go. So, once I've modified
my customize template to suit my needs and you're happy with what
you have, just click on the bottom right. There's a create thing menu box,
click on that. And you can actually give it a name. So I'm going to type Aric Wrench. And you'll see this box,
Publish New Thing. You have an account, your design will be published under your
name under your account on Thingiverse. So you'll be a published
Thingiverse author. Please keep that clicked, because that's essential to our exercise,
and create thing once again. You can actually go to your queue and wait as your product becomes
processed on the cloud. So, as you can see here,
the remixed object has been completed, and we have a picture of the object, and we have a unique thing number on the top
in the URL that signifies this creation. And this would be uploaded
onto your Thingiverse page since you have an account. Just like my wrench was uploaded
to our maker lab Thingiverse page. Now let me tell you how
to complete the exercise. It's very simple, first go to the exercise
portion of the second week of the course. You see a number of entry boxes, and
simply enter the required information. It will ask for three things. First of all, the object number,
you can find that in the URL. So for example, this object,
this wrench I created is object 1155912. Just enter that number into the box so we can actually see what you created
by going there on the Thingiverse page. Second, please tell us why you
picked that item to customize, what was your reason for
picking that particular item. And finally please discuss
briefly how this remixing experience made you feel,
and what you think about it. Do you feel differently about 3D printing,
for example, after going
through this exercise. And once you do that,
you're finished with your portion. What will happen next is your submission
will be peer-reviewed by your fellow learners. And likewise you'll have
the opportunity to offer comments and review of submissions
made by your colleagues. In addition,
if you happen to own a 3D printer, you can actually print out
this customized design. We've already discussed how
to do that in this course. If you don't have a 3D printer,
you can look for one locally using 3Dhubs.com which lists the network
of printers around the globe. You can also work through Shapeways,
one of our course partners, and get your object printed in a variety
of 3D printable materials. That's it,
I look forward to seeing your submission. [MUSIC] As I mentioned, you could actually
3D print your customized design. So we did just that. Here it is, my customized, 3D printed, Aric's Wrench, live in person. Now I just need something to tighten. [MUSIC] [MUSIC] [SOUND]